Docs/reshuffle the structure and content (#78)
equinor/template-fastapi-react: documentation/docs/contributing/development-guide/publishing.md

---
sidebar_position: 5
---

# Publishing

## Github actions

We use [GitHub Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/actions), as the [CI/CD pipeline](https://github.com/equinor/boilerplate-react-fastapi/actions).

> GitHub Actions makes it easy to automate all our software workflows. It build, test, and deploy the code right from GitHub.

Reviewer: Still an issue

> GitHub Actions makes it easy to automate all our software workflows. It build, test, and deploy the code right from GitHub.

Reviewer 2: "GitHub Actions" is both a plural and a singular proper noun 😅 Both of these (red and green) are correct:

> GitHub Actions (more than one GitHub Action) make it easy...

> GitHub Actions (the single product called GitHub Actions) makes it easy...

![tenor-205462625](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/37065184/196355511-e71c3235-f602-4a11-a954-b3b75b26cee4.gif)

> GitHub Actions makes it easy to automate all our software workflows. It build, test, and deploy the code right from GitHub.

Reviewer 2: Got fixed anyways, oh well.

> GitHub Actions makes it easy to automate all our software workflows. It build, test, and deploy the code right from GitHub.

Reviewer: Jeg legger meg flat :P

All the heavy lifting is done by GitHub. GitHub will simply use the files defined in `.github/workflows` to do the setup.

We trigger the reusable workflow like this:

![Github Actions](/img/github-actions.svg)

Since we are using trunk based development, all pushes to main trigger a release to a test environment.

> Release to production is triggered when we merge in the auto-generated pull requests (that contains changelogs) that are created by the `release-please.yml` Github action. 

Reviewer 2: @eoaksnes Did you make a little todo on this?

> Release to production is triggered when we merge in the auto-generated pull requests (that contains changelogs) that are created by the `release-please.yml` Github action. 

Reviewer 2: He wrote it on a post-it.

### Reusable workflows

A reusable workflow is just like any GitHub Actions workflow with one key difference - it includes a `workflow_call` trigger.

> * The `release.yaml` workflow will automatically create a pull request with an auto-generated changelog everytime code is pushed to the main branch. It will also at the same time bump version with standard-version and create a tagged release that can be used to deploy to production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `release-please.yaml` workflow will automatically create a pull request with an auto-generated changelog everytime code is pushed to the main branch. It will also at the same time bump version with standard-version and create a tagged release that can be used to deploy to production.
```

---
sidebar_position: 5
---

# Publishing

## Github actions

We use [GitHub Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/actions), as the [CI/CD pipeline](https://github.com/equinor/boilerplate-react-fastapi/actions).

GitHub Actions makes it easy to automate all our software workflows. It build, test, and deploy the code right from GitHub.

All the heavy lifting is done by GitHub. GitHub will simply use the files defined in `.github/workflows` to do the setup.

We trigger the reusable workflow like this:

![Github Actions](/img/github-actions.svg)

Since we are using trunk based development, all pushes to main trigger a release to a test environment.

> Release to production is triggered when we merge inn the auto-generated pull requests (that contains changelog) that are created from the `release-please.yml` Github action. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Release to production is triggered when we merge in the auto-generated pull requests (that contains changelogs) that are created by the `release-please.yml` Github action. 
```

Author: fixed

### Reusable workflows

> A reusable workflow is just like any GitHub Actions workflow with one key difference, it includes a `workflow_call` trigger.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A reusable workflow is just like any GitHub Actions workflow with one key difference - it includes a `workflow_call` trigger.
```

Author: fixed

* The `release.yaml` workflow will automatically create a pull request with an auto-generated changelog everytime code is pushed to the main branch. It will also at the same time bump version with standard-version and create a tagged release that can be used to deploy to production.
  * Missing: How to deploy the project on a live system.

* The `tests.yaml` workflow will automatically run all types of tests.

* The `publish-docs.yaml` workflow will build the documentation. Then it will deploy the documentation (placed in the site folder) to GitHub Pages.
## Changelogs

We auto-generate changelogs by following the [conventional commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/). specification

### How to generate

#### Auto-generated

 The Github action `release-please.yaml` is a workflow that will automatically create a pull request with an auto-generated changelog everytime code is pushed to the main branch.

#### Locally

Sometimes it is nice to generate the changelogs locally for testing.

```shell

> act -j release-please -s GITHUB_TOKEN=<GITHUB_TOKEN>

Reviewer 3: Perhaps add a line about `act`, how/where to install it from, etc?

Author: done, added
